CUSTOMER TESTING:


Test 1 - Create account


User launches application


User selects the create an account button


User selects either customer or seller from the dropdown menu and press ok/hit enter


User enters desired username via textbox and press ok/hit enter


User enters desired password via textbox and press ok/hit enter


User re enters same password via textbox and press ok/hit enter


Expected result: A file will be created or it may already exist called users.txt which stores the user info in this order: username,password,Seller/Customer. Then the program will end.


Test Status: Passed


Test 2 - Login User launches application


User selects login button


User enters username via textbox and press ok/hit enter


User enters password via textbox and press ok/hit enter


Either seller or customer menu will pop up depending on whether the user is a seller or customer


Expected Result: Application verifies the user's username and password and loads their menu automatically. If the user enters the incorrect username or password an error message will pop up and they will repeat the process.


Test Status: Passed


Test 3- Customer Menu - Search for a product option


Login as a customer - customer username and password


Select the option called “Search for a product”’ from the dropdown menu


There are two options. First, select the option called “Search for a product by store name”


Enter the exact name of the store


Expected result: There will be a list of the products from the store. If the user did not put a valid store, the program will tell the user the issue and will ask again


Now, go back to the two option list and select the second option called “Search all products”


Type what you want to search


Expected result: There will be a list of the products containing the term. This will search all of the products.


Test status: passed


Test 4 - Customer menu - Sort products by price option


Login as a customer - customer username and password


Select option called “Sort products by price”


Expected result: All the products will be sorted by price in a list.


Test status: passed


Test 5 - Customer menu - Sort products by quantity available option


Login as a customer - customer username and password


Select option called “Sort products by quantity available”


Expected result: All the products will be sorted by quantity available.


Test status: passed


Test 6 - Customer menu - View Shopping Cart


Login as a customer - customer username and password


Select the “View shopping cart” option


A list of the shopping cart will be displayed


The customer has three options. Select the “Checkout $<money>”  button


Expected result: The products get checked out and the shopping cart becomes empty


Now, traverse back and click the second option called “Remove Item”


Select the item to remove

Expected result: The product the user clicked on will get removed


Now, traverse back and click the last option called “Go Back”


Expected Result: The main customer menu will show up


Test Status: Passed


Test 7 - Customer menu - View product page to purchase option


Login as a customer - customer username and password


Select the “View product page to purchase” option


The user will be asked to enter the exact name and store name of the product. 


Expected Result: If the product is not found, then the program will notify the user


Another menu will come up. Selecting the “Go Back” option simply returns to the original customer menu


Select the “Add to cart” option


The user will be asked to request a quantity. Give a quantity.


Expected Result: If the user inputs something that is not an integer or a quantity larger than the available amount, the program will tell the user


Expected Result: If the user inputs the correct information, it will tell the user that the product was added.


Test Status: Passed


Test 8 - Customer menu - View purchase history option


Login as a customer - customer username and password


Select the “View purchase history” option


Expected result: The purchase history will be shown. The menu will show the name and then the quantity.


Test Status: Passed


Test 9 - Customer menu - Export product history


Login as a customer - customer username and password


Select the “Export product history” option


Expected result: The program will tell the user that it has been exported.


Test Status: Passed


Test 10 - Customer menu - Logout & Exit


Login as a customer - customer username and password


Select the “Logout & Exit” option


Expected Result: The program will thank the user for using the marketplace and the program will end.


Test Status: Passed
